.TH termite 1 "2013-03-26" "termite" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
termite \- A keyboard-centric VTE-based terminal aimed for use with
a tiling and/or tabbing enabled window manager.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBtermite\fP [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBtermite\fP is a GTK-based terminal emulator intended for use within
window managers with tiling and/or tabbing support. It provides a fast
terminal experience and pleasant array of keyboard-centric features.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
.IP "\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR"
Display help message.
.IP "\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR"
Display version information.
.IP "\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exec\fR\fB=\fR\fICOMMAND\fR"
Tell termite start \fICOMMAND\fP instead of the shell.
.IP "\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-role\fR\fB=\fR\fIROLE\fR"
The role to set the termite window to report itself with.
.IP "\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-title\fR\fB=\fR\fITITLE\fR"
Set the termite window's title to \fITITLE\fP. This disables dynamic
titles.
.IP "\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-directory\fR\fB=\fR\fIDIRECTORY\fR"
Tell termite to change to \fIDIRECTORY\fP when launching.
.IP "\fB\-\-icon\fR\f8=\fR\fIICON\fR"
Override the window icon name.
.IP "\fB\-\-hold\fR"
Keep termite open after the child process exits.
.IP "\fB\-\-display\fR\fB=\fR\fIDISPLAY\fR"
Launch on \fIDISPLAY\fP X display.
.IP "\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-config\fR\fB=\fR\fICONFIG\fR"
Specify a path to an alternative config file to use.
.PP
The following two options are built into GTK+ and documented by
\fB--help-gtk\fR
.PP
.IP "\fB\-\-name\fR\fB=\fR\fINAME\fR"
Set the windows name part of the \fIWM_CLASS\fR property.
.IP "\fB\-\-class\fR\fB=\fR\fICLASS\fR"
Set the windows class part of the \fIWM_CLASS\fR property.
.SH KEYBINDINGS
.SS Insert Mode
\fBInsert Mode\fP is the default mode common to most terminal emulators.
This is where you enter commands and interact with the programs running
within \fBtermite\fP.
.PP
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-r\fP"
reload configuration file
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-c\fP"
copy to \fICLIPBOARD\fP
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-v \fP"
paste from \fICLIPBOARD\fP
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-u\fP"
unicode input (standard GTK binding)
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-e\fP"
emoji (standard GTK binding)
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-up\fP"
scroll up a line
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-down\fP"
scroll down a line
.IP "\fBshift-pageup\fP"
scroll up a page
.IP "\fBshift-pagedown\fP"
scroll down a page
.IP "\fBctrl-shift-l\fP"
reset and clear
.IP "\fBctrl-+\fP"
increase font size
.IP "\fBctrl--\fP"
decrease font size
.IP "\fBctrl-=\fP"
reset font size to default
.SH FILES
\fBtermite\fP looks for the configuration file in the following order:
\fI"$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/termite/config"\fP,
\fI"~/.config/termite/config"\fP,
\fI"$XDG_CONFIG_DIRS/termite/config"\fP and \fI"/etc/xdg/termite/config"
.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBtermite\fP returns \fI1\fR on failure, including a termination of the
child process from an uncaught signal. Otherwise the status is that of
the child process.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
man termite.config(5)
